#summary Downloading and installing wikitools
This page details the options for downloading and installing wikitools. The instructions should work for any operating system, though they are designed mainly for Windows and Linux.
<div style='float:right'>
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />
</div>
= Downloading =

There are several options for downloading wikitools, depending on your particular platform. The files can be downloaded from this site, from the [http://code.google.com/p/python-wikitools/downloads/list Downloads tab] or from the [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/wikitools Python package index] (aka, the Cheese shop). The files are the same on both sites, however the pypi are signed. 

==Plain archives==
There are 2 types of compressed archives available, a zip file and a gzipped tarball. The tarball can be opened with the command `tar -xzf wikitools-version.tar.gz` from a command line on Linux (or any system with the tar utility installed) or by using a program like 7zip on Windows. The zip file can be uncompressed with the built-in utility in all recent versions of Windows or with the zip command on other systems

==RPMs and Windows installer==
The RPM files and Windows installer can be installed immediately after download, no preparation is required.

= Installing =

==Standard installation==
The "standard" installation installs wikitools using the standard Python installation location, into the site-packages directory, which will make wikitools available for all users on the machine:

===Source archives===
After uncompressing the archive (see above), change to the recently uncompressed directory (which by default is titled "wikitools-version#") in a command line/terminal.

Simply run
{{{
python setup.py install
}}}
On Linux/Unix, you may have to run it as root depending on file permissions for Python's directories. On Windows Vista or 7 you may have to run the program as an administrator depending on your security setting and where Python is installed.

===Windows installer===
Download and run the executable file, then click through the prompts. Note that on Windows Vista or 7 you may have to run the program as an administrator depending on your security setting and where Python is installed.

===RPM===
The RPM files can be used on Linux systems that use an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RPM_Package_Manager RPM-based] package manager. Download the file and run
{{{
rpm --install filename
}}}
You may need to run it as root.

==Alternate installation==
In certain situations, you may not be able to install Python packages in the default location (such as a system that you do not have root access on). These instructions apply only to the source archives and cannot be done with the installer/RPM.

In Python 2.6 and newer versions, the following command can be substituted for the install command in the [GettingStarted#Source_archives section above]:
{{{
python setup.py install --user
}}}
This will install wikitools into a per-user directory. On Unix, `~/.local/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages`. On Windows, `%APPDATA%/Python/PythonXY/site-packages` (where X and Y are the Python version numbers)

In older versions of Python, or where a different location is desired, the following command can be used:
{{{
python setup.py install --home=<dir>
}}}
wikitools will be installed under `<dir>/lib/python`. You may need to add this directory to the PYTHONPATH environment variable (see the documentation for your OS for how to do that). 

=Using=
 * For new users getting started, see [QuickStart].
 * Experienced Python programmers should read the [Documentation] for information about objects and functions provided by wikitools.

=See also=
 * For detailed information on installing 3rd party python packages, see [http://docs.python.org/install/ Installing Python Modules].
 * [http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0370/ PEP 370], for more information on the per-user site packages directory described in the "Alternative installation" section.